A long statement full of rather confusing data.

We can attack that question in two ways: by looking at the key data and going all the way to the diagnosis we are considering or by discarding one by one.

The choluria, LDH, presence of panagglutinin and the peripheral blood smear "smells" like hemolytic anemia.

Answer 1 cannot be because a marrow aplasia does not explain the choluria, the elevation of LDH, nor in the study of irregular antibodies is positive in the form of panagglutinin; an aplasia is a marrow failure characterized by a total or partial disappearance of hemopoietic progenitors.

In addition, pancytopenia is not observed, which is what would incline us more towards this pathology.

Answer 2 is not possible either, since a spherocytosis does not justify the presence of panagglutinin.

Answer 3 is the one I consider correct: an autoimmune hemolytic anemia would justify the data given: elevated LDH and bilirubinemia due to red cell destruction, polychromatophilia, spherocytosis and anisocytosis because the marrow is working hard to try to compensate for the anemia, which is regenerative.

The study of irregular antibodies and the presence of panagglutinin also supports this response, since the binding of an antibody to the hematocyte promotes its lysis and destruction.

The girl presents cough and fever, consistent with a respiratory infection.

And the initial treatment is corticosteroids.

This is confirmed by Sans Sabrafens in his book "Clinical Hematology" [1].

Answer 4 gives rise to considerable doubt; it is not possible because a pernicious anemia does not justify the presence of panagglutinin although it would justify the elevation of LDH and bilirubin; moreover, it is an intramedullary, arregenerative hemolysis, there is no reticulocytosis or release into the blood of immature forms in an attempt to compensate and fix the situation.

Answer 5 is not true because no blasts are seen in the blood nor does it explain the presence of panagglutinin.