Although other hemorrhagic diseases can have a prolonged thromboplastin time, due to the intensity of the lesion and the child's sex and family history, the most likely diagnosis is hemophilia.Knowing that we have taken measures of sleep hygiene, we have explored what provokes him not to sleep, and he does not sleep nine hours and still wants to sleep more,...then the less harmful answer is the 2.

Because it is the one with the shortest half-life and he does not want the lady to fall down the next day.The answer is 2, an EMG, which would be the diagnostic test to confirm the diagnostic suspicion of ALS, the imaging tests both CT, but especially MRI would help us to rule out, but would not confirm the diagnosis.In this case, when speaking of "reappearance of the symptoms when we lift the lower limb with the knee extended" we are describing the Lasègue Maneuver.

This maneuver is positive in cases of lumbosciatic pain, since it causes a stretching of the sciatic nerve, therefore the correct answer is number 3.

The rest of the pathologies do not have a positive Lasègue maneuver, so these options would not be correct.This year's Neurology section's burning question.

He presents a diabetic patient on insulin treatment with good control (although diabetic neuropathies do not only develop in patients with poor control) with a sensory picture limited to the upper limbs and of short onset time, without motor symptoms or at any other level.

In the examination there is a clear dissociation with thermoalgesic anesthesia and preservation of arthrokinetic and vibratory.

Reflexes are normal, neither abolished nor exalted.

In addition, the rest of the examination is strictly normal.

With all this I believe that the correct answer is 5, that is a syringomyelic lesion, whose initial characteristic is the sensitive dissociation with anesthesia for the thermoalgesic and conservation of the posterior cord.

MS and other spinal cord lesions would be accompanied by other exploratory signs such as exaltation of reflexes, for carpal tunnel the exploration exceeds the territory distal to the carpus, and as for answer 1, although there are forms of peripheral polyneuropathy "pseudosyringomyelic" they are usually of lumbar onset.

The short evolution time (2 weeks), the respect of the lower limbs and the preservation of muscle reflexes make me rule out this response despite the distribution being "glove-like".It is SLE with joint, skin and serositis involvement.

Treatment is EC at moderate-high doses.

Mycophenolate is never a treatment in acute phase but in maintenance, nor has it proved useful in joint involvement.Given this clinical picture, one possibility is dermatomyositis.

Of the proposed tests, the determination of serum aldolase may be useful.

Its elevation is characteristic of this disease.

The biopsy should be muscular and not subcutaneous.

Anti-smooth muscle antibodies are not characteristic of this disease.Rupture of the interventricular septum.

Mechanical complications are typical in infarctions in elderly women.

Likewise, a murmur that was not present indicates abnormal blood flow: the most frequent complications are mitral insufficiency, which would present with a musical or piante murmur, and VSD, which presents with a murmur radiating to the right border (think of the direction of blood flow).We have before us a patient with neuropathic pain, which due to the origin of the tumor, is most likely due to involvement of the celiac plexus.

It is important to have a radiological diagnosis in view of a possible local treatment, such as neurolytic treatment or plexus blockade.

However, we should not leave the patient without a treatment that can alleviate but rather solve the current situation.

He is taking WHO step 3 analgesia, which is clearly insufficient, so he will need adjuvants; although opioids for neuropathic pain are not very effective, we will not reduce the dose but will associate the adjuvants.

We would manage the patient with gabapentin and corticosteroids (true answer 4); we would not decrease the dose of morphine (false answer 3), and in the meantime we would ask for a CT scan (or abdominal MRI) to subsequently assess the plexus block (answers 1 and 2 for future management).The question would be more of neurology.

It is a claude bernard horner syndrome and probably the correct one is 1.

But for safety's sake it is better to have it checked by a neurologist.She should not become pregnant until she has undergone regular check-ups and one year has passed with negative beta-HCG levels.

Patients will be monitored weekly with hCG dosing until it becomes undetectable, for three consecutive times.

After that the monitoring will be monthly for six months and then every two months for another six months before a new pregnancy.The correct answer is 4.

What is not very clear to me is "routine urinalysis" because it is not usually done in an asymptomatic healthy child.

Microhematuria without associated symptoms may be a finding without pathologic significance and must be confirmed in a subsequent new sediment (although I do not know if at 15 days or later).Orthosis.

Cobb angle between 25º - 45º.

Immature skeleton (Risser 0).The patient is already diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia B (B-CLLL), presents lymphocytosis that is maintained for more than 3 months and by flow cytometry presents a phenotype compatible with it.

Therefore, we must first know the risk factors that will indicate with what priority treatment will need to be initiated, their intensity and prognosis; the presence of TP53 mutations or 17p deletions depends on this.

The bone marrow aspirate or biopsy is only indicated if there are other accompanying cytopenias that are not justified by the B-CLL itself, PET-CT is only indicated if Ritcher's syndrome is suspected and we do not have enough data to suspect it, there are no B symptoms, nor is there any mention of LDH elevation.This is a clear clinical case of systemic sclerosis (Raynaud's, esophageal involvement, skin induration) presenting with renal crisis.

Apart from anti-proteinase 3 antibodies, which are not related to scleroderma (incorrect answer 3), the most likely ones would be antiRNA polymerase III antibodies, which appear in younger patients with renal crises.This is intermittent dysphagia.

Barrett's esophagus does not necessarily imply peptic stricture, but assuming it does, it is progressive.

Infectious esophagitis is more typical of immunocompromised patients.

That leaves distal esophageal ring and eosinophilic esophagitis; both are possible, but the insistence on the patient's atopic burden indicates the likelihood of the latter.Answer 2 is false (Turner syndrome: low estradiol and elevated gonadotrophins), brain tumors affecting the hypothalamus-pituitary gland do not give low gonadotrophins (5 false), and it seems obvious that refractive defects do not give hemianopsia (3 and 4 false).The correct answer is 1.

The statement perfectly defines a tolerance phenomenon in which the patient has become "used to" the dose and needs more in order to have the same analgesic effect.In the presence of isolated thrombocytopenia we must not lose sight of the physical examination; thus, the presence of lymphadenopathy forces us to rule out the presence of lymphoma, for example.

1 is correct.

When performing a bone marrow biopsy-aspirate it is seen that the number of megakaryocytes is normal or even increased, the failure is not in the marrow but in the peripheral blood, where platelets are destroyed.

So.

The false answer is 2.Diagnostic laparoscopy.

It is a typical case of deep endometriosis, with implants in different parts of the pelvis.

The definitive diagnosis will be given by the pathological anatomy, so for this we have to do Laparoscopy and send to PA.As a possible disease I would consider Brucellosis, typical of cattle (milk, abortion, genital secretions...).

It presents with a pseudo-flu-like symptomatology (headache, arthralgias, myalgias, fever...) and other symptoms depending on the route of entry.

In our case, when attending animal births, the entry is through the respiratory route, so the pulmonary infiltrates and chest pain are due to the bacteria.

The treatment varies according to the affectation and mortality is very low, almost null.

Morbidity and involvement in pregnant women are of greater concern.

Important: it is very frequent in livestock workers (veterinarians, farmers, slaughterhouses...) if you read something like "attends births of livestock animals", "works on a farm", "is a veterinarian" suspect Brucellosis.Hypercapnia and acidosis produce vasodilatation causing increased cerebral blood flow.

According to the described examination the Glasgow is 4 (O1V1M2).

Cerebral perfusion pressure is mean arterial pressure minus intracranial pressure.

Cerebral edema in which cellular edema is produced by the introduction of extracellular fluid into the intracellular compartment is cytotoxic.Answers 1, 2 and 5 are appropriate treatments for dumping syndrome or postgastrectomy, but the question is focused on initial management, so the most appropriate answer seems to be 2.Be careful with lithium.

Intoxications have been seen with normal lithium.

It is not rare -especially due to interactions-.

A very effective drug if everyone is forewarned.There is no doubt, they are not meeting the diagnostic criteria of Kawasaki disease (fever of several days of evolution, exanthema, conjunctival injection, red lips, raspberry tongue, edema of acral parts and adenopathy).In this patient, he presents with a granulomatosis with polyangiitis formerly known as Wegener's granulomatosis.

In the clinical case we are told about the otorhinolaryngologic involvement that is present in 92% of patients.

At the pulmonary level, we were told that mucus with a clot was present in 85% of the patients.

Also at the end of the case, they comment us the urinalysis with a glomerulonephritis that is present in 77% of the patients.Of the five options, four could be compatible with the referred symptoms.

We could initially rule out central serous chorioretinopathy because by definition it occurs in young people (up to 55 years of age, more or less).

The key to differentiate between the other four is that he had soft drusen in the fundus.

That while not a "diagnosis" (the question could have been better worded) is a finding related to age-related macular degeneration, or age-related macular degeneration.

The dry or atrophic form presents with slowly progressive visual loss.

But the wet or exudative form produces acute or rapidly progressive severe visual loss (usually due to subretinal hemorrhage accompanied by metamorphopsia (image distortion due to retinal lifting).

An epiretinal membrane usually has a slower course.

In a macular hole, visual loss is more relevant (metamorphopsia may also be reported, but it is less likely in the acute stage).

In thrombosis of the central retinal vein, visual loss is more important and does not usually explain metamorphopsia (but may have it, due to macular edema).This question is a bit convoluted for the diagnosis of Cushing's syndrome but easy if the steps are clear.

We all agree that the patient seems to have Cushing's syndrome (we rule out 1).

For the diagnosis we have to measure urinary free cortisol, do a dexamethasone suppression test or measure nocturnal salivary cortisol.

If hypercortisolism is confirmed, the origin should be sought; the ACTH measurement indicates the origin: suppressed in hypercortisolism of adrenal origin or prolonged use of corticoids and elevated or normal if the origin is pituitary or by ectopic ACTH secretion.

(Therefore, 4 and 5 are false).

If ACTH is low, a CT scan of the abdomen should be performed to locate the origin.

If ACTH is normal or high, a pituitary MRI should be performed (pituitary adenomas responsible for Cushing's syndrome are very small and CT of the pituitary is less sensitive than MRI).

It is very important to perform the order well to arrive at a proper diagnosis: 1st: confirm hypercortisolism or s.

Cushing's syndrome, 2nd: measure ACTH to orient etiology.

3rd: imaging test according to ACTH levels.

Therefore, answer 2 is false (abdominal CT is not a test to rule out s. Cushing's); an imaging test should only be done once a clear diagnosis of hypercortisolism has been made.

Therefore, the true one is 3.Complicated question about an unusual adenocarcinoma.

By rule 1 would be easy to eliminate, the treatment of colon cancer is surgical (with neoadjuvant in rectal cancer).

If biopsies confirm adenocarcinoma, there is no need to repeat them, since it is necessary to have the complete specimen.

Most colon cancer develops on adenomas, so we could eliminate this one.

Among the other 2, it is important to know that 5 is correct since they almost always present microsatellite instability even without fulfilling the Amsterdam criteria and have a better prognosis than other poorly differentiated colon cancer.In the presence of acute gouty arthritis (the presence of intracellular crystals with negative birefringence confirms this) in a hyperuricemic patient previously treated with allopurinol, an NSAID should be added until the crisis subsides.

No changes should be made in the hypouricemic treatment during this period because the uric acid metabolic chain is altered and the situation may worsen.A simple question if we are clear about the diagnostic process of HIV.

At first glance, we could directly rule out answer 2 since we know that mononucleosis can be an expression of the first phase of HIV infection, especially when we have a history of a risk contact.

Answers 3 and 4 are also easily ruled out; ELISA is a very sensitive but not very specific technique and confirmation with a Western-blot test is ALWAYS necessary.

Answers 1 and 5 contradict each other if you notice, so one of the two is correct.

In this case, the false answer is 1, it is a very categorical answer ("rule out") that does not quite fit the reality; As we have said, ELISA is a very sensitive technique, so a negative result could leave us quite calm, however, we all know that there is no medical test that rules out anything with total certainty (unless its sensitivity is 100%, which is not the case) and, on the other hand, we could say that in this case we have a high clinical suspicion (the picture is suggestive, and the antecedents are there).

In addition, it is only 3 weeks since the contact, so our patient is probably in the "window period" during which serological techniques may be unprofitable.

In conclusion, the answer that best fits us would be 5, in the window period a viral load may be indicated for diagnosis (positive if there are more than 10,000 copies), although this test is not done routinely.You are asking about auriculotemporal syndrome or Frey's syndrome.

It is the clinical expression of a vegetative neuropathy caused by mechanical or irritative lesion of the vegetative fibers of the auriculotemporal nerve in its infratemporal pathway.

In our environment the most frequent cause is surgery of the split gland with a percentage of occurrence between 10 and 80%.

Conservative treatment with botulinum toxin offers good results.The correct answer is the first one.

The most frequent cause of urinary tract infections is Escherichia coli and in the case of pregnant women as well.A somewhat more complicated question than the previous one.

Regarding weight, metformin to a lesser extent, SGLT-2 inhibitors and, above all, GLP-1 agonists have been associated with a significant decrease in weight in patients with DM-2 (answers 1,3 and 4 incorrect).

On the other hand, pioglitazone, as reflected in its data sheet, can produce dose-dependent weight gain, mainly due to fat accumulation and added, in some cases, to water retention.This is a typical case of cervical incompetence (and this patient has conization as a risk factor).

This pathology consists of dilatation of the cervix in the absence of contractions, requiring cerclage to prevent miscarriage or immature delivery.

The cerclage is ideally performed electively, programmed, and not when the patient arrives at the ER "in extemis" (which are also done, but with a lower success rate... the ideal is to do them cold).The patient presented pulmonary thromboembolism which, in addition to being bilateral, produced severe hemodynamic involvement, shock and required mechanical ventilation.

We are not told that he has any contraindication to fibrinolysis, so this would be the most appropriate option due to its rapid administration and action.

Sodium heparin is reserved for cases in which the patient is stable.

Thromboendarterectomy could be performed urgently in selected centers (not available in all) in patients in whom systemic fibrinolysis is contraindicated, or in centers where the experience with this technique is proven and it can be performed quickly.

The inferior vena cava filter is a treatment indicated in the acute phase in stable patients, when anticoagulation is contraindicated; or a posteriori, as prophylaxis, in this group of patients.

The indications for fibrinolysis in the last SEPAR consensus document included patients at intermediate risk (they could benefit from it) and high risk.

They classify intermediate risk as PESIs ≥ 1 or PESI III-IV.

In this subgroup, patients with right ventricular dysfunction, troponin or BNP above the cutoff and deep vein thrombosis appear to benefit most from fibrinolysis.

In the subgroup of high-risk patients (defined by hypotension or cardiogenic shock criteria), the use of systemic fibrinolysis is much clearer, as in the case presented in the question.The patient probably presents with bronchiolitis.

At this stage, no additional tests should be performed unless there is a clinical worsening.Low BP with high jugular pressure should always raise the suspicion of cardiac tamponade.

Fever and chest pain with dyspnea and tachypnea should raise suspicion of pericardial effusion with hemodynamic compromise.

Paradoxical pulse is a typical finding of cardiac tamponade.

Therefore, the correct answer is 5.This question may be a little more difficult, as the clinical case presented to us is very vague.

An adolescent with pubertal delay and short stature; nothing more.

With this information, she could have several genetic pathologies, but this is the MIR and we are told that the patient does not have an intellectual disability.

In the MIR, an adolescent with pubertal delay and short stature should be a Turner until proven otherwise (there were two questions in 2017).

Therefore, if that is our first diagnostic suspicion, the HABITUAL test (as the statement says) for diagnosis should be a conventional karyotype (formula: 45, X0).

A Turner can also be diagnosed with a FISH (there would only be one signal for the X instead of the two that females usually have) or with an array.

However, both array and NGS are usually reserved for patients with non-obvious clinical pictures, intellectual disability, or suspicion of a genetic syndrome that requires these specific tests (for example, an array to diagnose a 22q11 deletion syndrome or an NGS panel to diagnose a Noonan syndrome).The diagnostic suspicion for the data given (especially the anti-GBM antibodies and the presence of renopulmonary syndrome) is that of Goodpasture's syndrome.

The rest of the data (seminules in the biopsy, linear IgG deposition) supports the diagnosis.

Knowing this, the options are easily discarded: option 1 speaks to us of an IgA nephropathy (it is not the case because the deposits are of IgG); option 3 is also discarded, because it is not a primary GMN, like the membranous one, but a secondary glomerulopathy; option 4 is also false: the initial treatment is with corticosteroids and cyclophosphamide associated to plasmapheresis; and option 5 is also false, since the damage is not due to circulating immunocomplexes, but to antibodies deposited in the glomerular basement membrane.

This leaves option 2 as true: as it has been previously said, the treatment would be performed combining corticosteroids, cyclophosphamide and plasmapheresis.It seems that they want to present us with precocious puberty (or premature telarche) but they do not provide any analytical data and the ultrasound data are ambiguous (we should assume that by a small uterus they are referring to a prepubertal uterus, but they do not provide any data on ovarian size).

We are presented with the case of a three-year-old girl with advanced mammary development, in principle without any associated cause (in principle she does not take drugs that can increase the level of estrogen in the blood, she does not seem to use body creams or eat a lot of chicken meat).

If we follow the diagnostic scheme for a premature telarche or suspicion of precocious puberty, we request bone age and abdominal ultrasound (the EO is not advanced as in precocious puberty, and we assume that with a small uterus they mean a prepubertal uterus); according to the complementary examinations that we are given, it does not seem to be precocious puberty, except for the clinical (Tanner IV).

Strictly speaking, without analytical hormonal data, it seems that we could mark option 1, being necessary to follow the girl closely.

If we take all the above data for granted, we could rule out option 4, which would be the treatment of a central precocious puberty.

Regarding the option of mammography, breast ultrasound is used in pediatrics, and in this case it would be indicated if we were told that there is breast asymmetry (we discard option 3).

Regarding breast biopsy, it would only be indicated if there are warning signs.In this question we are presented with a case to deduce a diagnosis and then indicate which would be the treatment of choice.

Both the characteristics of the case and the answers suggest that it is a trigemino-autonomic headache (intense, periocular pain with lacrimation and rhinorrhea).

The idea is to make a differential diagnosis mainly between a cluster headache (whose treatments include answers 2, 3, 4 and 5), a paroxysmal hemicrania (whose treatment of choice is the indomethacin of answer 1) and a SUNCT (unilateral neuralgiform headache with conjunctival injection and lacrimation).

Cluster headache predominates in males whose duration can vary between 15-180 minutes, between once every 2 days, up to 8 times a day.

Paroxysmal hemicrania predominates in women, with episodes of pain similar to cluster headache, but with a shorter duration (2-30 min), and a higher frequency (5-30 episodes per day).

As for SUNCT, the crises are much shorter, lasting seconds (5-240 seconds) and are usually refractory to treatment.

Therefore the diagnosis would be of a paroxysmal hemicrania and its treatment of choice is indomethacin (which also the answer is a diagnostic criterion).

Therefore correct answer 1 (Indomethacin).

All data provided are based on the Diagnostic Criteria of the International Headache Society.The correct answer is 3.

If I am not mistaken, you are describing a Celso's kerion for which the treatment of choice is oral griseofulvin.We are presented with a case of monocular amaurosis with a vascular profile, also in an older woman with a history of weight loss and what seems to be symptoms of mandibular claudication and polymyalgia rheumatica, so the first cause to think about is giant cell arteritis as the cause of NOIA, so the correct option would be 2.

Option 4 would be considered if we were told of an AINO but with non-arteritic characteristics (without all the accompanying symptomatology).Correct answer 1: The picture described is very suggestive of pseudocrisis with asynchronous limb movements, pelvic movements, crying and poor response to antiepileptic drugs.To correctly answer this question it should be emphasized that among the symptomatology that is exposed we find: - 2-year-old child.

- ENT infections.

- Pulmonary infections.

- Hospital admissions.

- PTI.

- Family history of infections with deaths due to infections in males (maternal family).

- Atopic Dermatitis.

All these data, in addition to the analytical data, are describing an immunodeficiency that by the family-maternal history, seems to be X-linked, as several males have died of a similar clinical condition (the father of the patient contributed the Y chromosome, the mother the X).

Among the X-linked immunodeficiencies is Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, an entity described with an initial triad of symptoms consisting of bleeding (typical BUT absent in the case: heavy bleeding after circumcision, bloody diarrhea), recurrent infections and eczema.

In addition to thrombocytopenia, they are at increased risk for autoimmune phenomena and lymphoid neoplasms.

The Hyper-IgE option lacks very characteristic clinical data such as bone alterations and skin lesions, which are not atopic dermatitis, since they follow a different pattern (papulopustular rash on the face and scalp).

The option of transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy and the common severe and variable combined immunodeficiency fails, among other features, the determination of immunoglobulins G and M, which are at the lower limit, but within normality.The confusional picture is determined by the dementia that the patient already suffers, so no matter how much we delay surgery, we are not going to achieve anything.

The elevation of blood pressure is due, in principle, to pain (so the first option is an analgesic) and then to the stressful situation that leads an already hypertensive patient to increase her blood pressure, so labetalol could help us.

The last answer is not correct because it depends on the type of fracture, which is not specified in the statement: a pertrochanteric fracture would require closed osteosynthesis and a subcapital fracture would require a prosthesis.BI-RADS Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System.

BI-RADS 3 is defined by answer 3.The halo sign is characteristic of pulmonary aspergillosis, especially in an immuodepressed patient.

But it is not pathognomonic; it has also been associated with TB, some neoplasms and Wegener's granulomatosis.The first option seems to be the correct one, due to the low probability of P. jirovecii infection in a patient with more than 500 CD4 lymphocytes and undetectable viral load.

It is most likely to be a pneumococcal infection that we cover with Ceftriaxone and with azithromycin we cover the so-called "atypical" ones.

Meropenem is an antibiotic with too broad a spectrum, which would be an option in in-hospital pneumonia caused by P. aeruginosa, a bacterial agent that can also cause pneumonia in HIV patients, but this is not common.The first thing is to treat the infection and for this we must remove all the osteosynthesis material, debride and give antibiotherapy.

Fixation in this case is better external to avoid all the material around the affected area, so 4 is correct and 1 and 2 is not.

The 3 would be considered after expiration of the infectious picture.

TREATMENT - Suppressive antibiotic treatment: indicated in patients with Ciemy type C, it consists of prolonged oral antibiotic therapy for at least 6 months to "cool" the exacerbation of the clinical picture.

- Curative treatment: includes a first surgery with aggressive tumor-like debridement of all affected tissues, profuse irrigation, stabilization with external fixator if stability is compromised, and eventual filling of the cavities with antibiotic-releasing substances.

After prolonged periods of antibiotic therapy selected according to the antibiograms of the cultures, and once it is certain that the infection has been cured, special techniques for the reconstruction of the bone defect and to achieve adequate coverage of soft tissues should be considered.

We are dealing with an infection associated with an implant (intramedullary nail) and pseudoarthrosis of the tibia fracture (absence of union after 11 months).

The infection is understood by the clinical manifestations (suppuration, nonunion) and the history of diabetes and open fracture.

Management overlaps with the management of chronic osteomyelitis.

Isolated antibiotherapy (option 2) is indicated only in patients with severe comorbidity in whom surgical treatment would be more aggressive than continuing the disease.

Nail dynamization associated with broad-spectrum antibiotherapy (option 1) is not indicated either, because (a) it has not demonstrated benefit in established pseudarthrosis and (b) we have the same issue as option 1, we do not eliminate biofilm.

Option 3, discussed, would be considered only if there was no associated infection.Acute urticaria: characterized by erythematous-edematous, evanescent, pruritic, evanescent lesions, lasting less than 24 hours, without desquamation.

The general condition is usually preserved.

In children the annular pattern is more frequent.

In both rubella and toxicoderma, the general condition is not preserved.

In staphylococcal shock, the general condition is affected and the lesions are blistering.

Scabies lesions are preferably interdigital, in the form of papulocoses that can follow linear trajectories.We are faced with polyuria.

Initially we rule out diabetes mellitus (our patient has a normal blood glucose of 96mg/dl).

The analytical data suggest diabetes insipidus (high plasma osm with low urinary osm).

Now we must differentiate between central diabetes insipidus (lack of ADH) or nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (ADH does not exert its action at the renal level).

This is achieved by the vasopressin test (intravenous administration of ADH and remeasurement of urinary osmolarity).

Therefore, the correct answer is option 3.Book picture of Primary Biliary Cirrhosis, one of those that do not occur in real life.

The diagnosis would be practically made with the AMA (1).

With 2 we would rule out hemochromatosis, with 3 we would rule out Wilson's disease.

With 4 we could rule out rare diseases such as biliary tract malformations or Caroli's disease and with 5 we could rule out viral hepatitis.Fractures of the midface in the orbito-malar region may involve the floor and, to a lesser extent, the lateral wall of the orbit.

Assuming therefore that we are asked which is one of the most frequent complications of the floor of the orbit, two complications should always be highlighted that may indicate surgical treatment, even urgent: diplopia, due to dislocation of the inferior rectus muscle to the underlying maxillary sinus (and even its entrapment); and enophthalmos, which may cause other associated complications in the medium and long term, such as superior palpebral pseudo-ptosis due to loss of orbital volume (option 4 correct).

Temporomandibular ankylosis is not considered because, although relatively close to the orbital cavity, it is not part of the orbito-malar complex (option 1 discarded).

Involvement of the maxilla can lead to dental malocclusion, but usually occurs in fractures located lower than the orbital cavity (option 2 discarded).

Naso-ethmoidal fractures are included in midface fractures, but the bones of the nose are located more anteriorly to the medial orbital rim, and therefore outside the orbit (option 3 discarded).We are being described an acute pain crisis in a patient with gonarthrosis.

In this situation, the first thing to do is to resolve the pain crisis and to propose an appropriate conservative treatment for this osteoarthritis (1 correct).

A knee arthroplasty is not considered at the outset, so 2 is false.

They are not telling us an infectious clinic to suspect an arthritis that would justify a debridement and washing so 3 is false.

In a patient with gonarthrosis there will always be meniscopathy, it is part of the degenerative changes.

Baker's cyst would only interest us in a severe pain crisis in the differential diagnosis with a deep thrombosis and it is evaluated with an echo-Doppler, in the picture of gonarthrosis it has no value to detect a Baker's cyst.

Tendinitis is diagnosed by examination, not with MRI.

Therefore, 4 is false.The history of contact with fresh water in an endemic area points to leptospirosis, and in the clinical picture we also find jaundice and conjunctival injection which also points to leptospirosis and is not so characteristically related to the other three pathogens.Nocardia can typically affect immunosuppressed patients, especially those with impaired cell-mediated immunity such as that produced by steroids, and can present with pulmonary involvement, brain abscesses and skin abscesses.

Tuberculosis can affect lung and brain but not cutaneous abscesses.

Aspergillus also does not affect the skin.In this question, one might suspect the possibility of an affective shift after the introduction of the antidepressant drug, according to the patient, but if we look at the patient's ability to maintain sleep, there is a clear fact that "rules out" the hypo/manic shift.

Two weeks is not enough time for the drug to have taken full effect on mood, but an initial activation may appear, which patients sometimes do not cope with very well (something that does not seem to be the case).

In this patient it is indicated to maintain the treatment and reevaluate in no more than one month.In healthy adults there may be palpable inguinal nodes up to 2 centimeters that can be considered normal.

A complementary study of these normal lymph nodes is not warranted.I think this question is not clearly in the Infectious Diseases syllabus, and may overlap with OFT and DERMA, but as I understand it, in an immunocompromised patient and also with data of ocular involvement, admission for intravenous treatment would be indicated due to the high risk of possible complications.We are presented with a patient with resistant arterial hypertension, assuming that he has primary hyperaldosteronism due to hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis.

When the diagnosis is biochemically confirmed, the next test to be performed is a CT scan to determine the subtype and rule out the presence of an adrenal carcinoma (option 3 correct).

Therefore, it is necessary to wait for the imaging test to confirm the etiology (option 1 incorrect).

The most frequent cause is aldosterone-producing adenoma (option 2 incorrect).

Spironolactone is the medical treatment of choice (option 4 incorrect).He is describing a textbook Reiter's syndrome: palmo-plantar keratoderma, arthritis and ocular manifestations, together with probably a chlamydial urethritis, perhaps asymptomatic (they do not explain urethral exudate).

Of course, the patient may also have HIV infection or even secondary syphilis (in addition to Reiter's).Pulmonary contusion is the most serious lesion and the one with the worst prognosis in thoracic trauma.

It is also the injury that causes hypoxemia the earliest.

Contrary to what we may think, an unstable thorax due to multiple rib fractures (costal volet) would cause progressive hypoventilation with atelectasis of the pulmonary parenchyma, which would progress on the one hand to hypercapnia and respiratory acidosis, and on the other, to later hypoxemia due to infection associated with atelectasis.

Respiratory infection due to aspiration would also occur later, and does not appear in all cases of severe chest trauma, only if there has been a decrease in the level of consciousness (associated TBI, uncontrolled intubation with bronchoaspiration...).

Post-traumatic hypovolemia (in this case, as there are multiple rib fractures, it could be due to hemothorax) would occur earlier and would be associated in the first place with hemodynamic instability.Easy question.

Stage G3a corresponds to a filtration rate between 45-59 ml/min.

Stage A1 corresponds to albuminuria less than 30 mg/ml.

Therefore the correct option is 1.Transfusing this patient and stuffing him with antibiotics is giving him bread for today and hunger for tomorrow.

We want something more lasting.

Androgens and platelet transfusions don't fix the problem either.

We are left with the other three options.

An autologous transplant is not reasonable, since the bone marrow of a patient with bone marrow aplasia is less than 25%, so little can be obtained.

Therefore, we are inclined towards allogeneic bone marrow transplantation if he has an HLA-identical sibling, since this is the treatment of choice according to the protocol of the Spanish Society of Hematology and Hemotherapy for patients under 40 years of age with severe bone marrow aplasia.

Correct answer, 3.The question is tricky: it speaks of a burn of 10% of the body surface and the treatment of choice for second degree burns less than 20% of the BSA should be topical and monitored.

However, there is a warning sign: there is no arterial pulse and the burn is circumferential to the limb.

This is an emergency that, if allowed to evolve, will compromise the viability of the affected limb and end in amputation: an emergency escharotomy must be performed in order to relieve the pressure of the third space on the arterial vascular trunk.FiO2 of 1 and hyperventilation with mechanical ventilation, demonstrated by the low PCO2, fail to sufficiently raise PO2, due to a V/Q disturbance, with probable shunt in the area of pulmonary atelectasis, probably acute, since the lung has not been able to create compensatory mechanisms to limit perfusion in the poorly ventilated areas.Basic semiology.

However, emergency reasoning: systolic murmur, something that in systole had to be closed and is not, or had to open, and does not: options 1, 3 and 5.

And if we see repercussion in the jugular pulse, it must be in the right cavities.

Apart from the fact that the v wave appears during systole, while the atria are filling: if the RV flow rises to the RA, what will happen is that the v wave will be very large?This is a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.

In my opinion, as in these six months she has shown a clear clinical and biological improvement (decrease in acute phase reactants), I would maintain the therapeutic approach taken and wait for a new evaluation.

However, I consider that this question could have another valid answer, 3.

It depends a little on the attitude of each rheumatologist.

If what you are looking for is a remission of the disease as soon as possible, you could choose to consider associating an anti-TNF alpha?As long as fever persists in an evolving pneumonia, there is a risk of empyematization, especially if a small effusion has already occurred at the beginning of the picture.

In principle, antibiotic treatment is correct and before considering changes in treatment, the possibility of empyematization should be evaluated.A patient of adolescent age with myoclonus ("violent jumps") at breakfast time will almost always lead us to juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (answer 5 correct), a very well characterized entity.

Among other features is the previous history of seizures or absences, the worsening with nighttime departures, and the EEG with generalized polyp spike discharges at a higher frequency than that of absences.

Of the remaining answers, Lennox Gastaut develops at an early age with other symptomatology, 4 is the same as absences, and 3 usually presents with complex partial seizures and either way, the EEG is clearly distinct from a temporal focus.Having antibodies against the core implies natural contact, and that it is IgG, which is not acute.

The absence of e antigen rules out active replication.

And the persistence of surface antigen (HBsAg) and virus DNA indicates that it is still present.

Together, these indicate an asymptomatic carrier.

Carriers of the pre-core mutant usually have recurrent symptomatic periods and increased liver inflammation.

There would be insufficient data to rule it out completely, but it is not among the answers and indicates a completely normal physical examination.Refeeding syndrome occurs in patients with previous malnutrition exposed to either oral, enteral or parenteral nutritional therapy.

All responses are causes of malnutrition except 3.A long statement full of rather confusing data.

We can attack that question in two ways: by looking at the key data and going all the way to the diagnosis we are considering or by discarding one by one.

The choluria, LDH, presence of panagglutinin and the peripheral blood smear "smells" like hemolytic anemia.

Answer 1 cannot be because a marrow aplasia does not explain the choluria, the elevation of LDH, nor in the study of irregular antibodies is positive in the form of panagglutinin; an aplasia is a marrow failure characterized by a total or partial disappearance of hemopoietic progenitors.

In addition, pancytopenia is not observed, which is what would incline us more towards this pathology.

Answer 2 is not possible either, since a spherocytosis does not justify the presence of panagglutinin.

Answer 3 is the one I consider correct: an autoimmune hemolytic anemia would justify the data given: elevated LDH and bilirubinemia due to red cell destruction, polychromatophilia, spherocytosis and anisocytosis because the marrow is working hard to try to compensate for the anemia, which is regenerative.

The study of irregular antibodies and the presence of panagglutinin also supports this response, since the binding of an antibody to the hematocyte promotes its lysis and destruction.

The girl presents cough and fever, consistent with a respiratory infection.

And the initial treatment is corticosteroids.

This is confirmed by Sans Sabrafens in his book "Clinical Hematology" [1].

Answer 4 gives rise to considerable doubt; it is not possible because a pernicious anemia does not justify the presence of panagglutinin although it would justify the elevation of LDH and bilirubin; moreover, it is an intramedullary, arregenerative hemolysis, there is no reticulocytosis or release into the blood of immature forms in an attempt to compensate and fix the situation.

Answer 5 is not true because no blasts are seen in the blood nor does it explain the presence of panagglutinin.Direct response question.

The question tells the story of a patient with acute pancreatitis who is developing acute respiratory failure.

The statement lists the criteria for ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome): PaO2/fiO2 < 200 + bilateral pulmonary infiltrates + PCP<18.

So the diagnosis is respiratory distress and therefore the correct answer is option 5.Other drugs are a good choice in urinary tract infections caused by large negative bacilli (most likely: E. coli).

The presence of leukocytes + nitrites in the urine is very suggestive of UTI.

And if the urine Gram detects G- bacteria, it is probably a UTI due to E Coli.

Many E Coli are resistant to amoxicillin.1- The most likely diagnosis is retractile testis.

2- Wait until two years of age for spontaneous decrease of the synovial fluid.

3- Human chorionic gonadotropin is the treatment of first choice.

4- The indication for orchidopexy should not be deferred.

5- nan

CORRECT ANSWER: 4

This is cryptorchidism.

It has to be treated before the age of 2 years, and hormonal treatment is currently in disuse.

The treatment of first choice is orchidopexy.None of the other three options give that clinical picture (DPV is usually asymptomatic, CRVO produces abrupt and total or near total loss of vision with the typical "cherry red spot" in the fundus, and both an arteritic and non-arteritic NOIA would produce papillary edema usually with peripapillary but not macular hemorrhages, and none of these 3 options have any association with drusen in the contralateral eye).

AMD in its exudative form presents with both this clinical presentation (loss of vision and metamorphopsia) and the characteristic fundus described in the question, in addition to the fact that drusen are usually observed in the contralateral eye.Diplopia on vertical gaze is highly suggestive that the bony walls of the orbit are affected.

Lefort type I fracture does not affect the orbital contents.

Knowing this information, the only correct answer is 2.

If we were in doubt about whether or not Lefort's type I fracture affects the orbit, just look at the answers.

Whoever posted the question wanted to make sure that the only valid answer was number 2; that is why they added the tag line "but just in case we check it with a CT scan".This question could be controversial.

Option 1 is strongly discarded because endophthalmitis typically presents with a lot of pain.

Option 3 of wet form of age-related macular degeneration is also ruled out, because it usually occurs in older patients, although what a patient with myopia magna may present with is myopic macular degeneration (with a similar clinical picture to AMD, but this is a different pathology).

A posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) is usually not very symptomatic, producing myodesopsias but no loss of vision or pain; however, some PVDs are of the hemorrhagic type, by traction of the vessels, producing a vitreous hemorrhage that would cause loss of vision.

In any case, due to the history of myopia magna and previous intraocular surgery, the first diagnosis to rule out would be retinal detachment, since these are two risk factors for this pathology.

Technically, both option 2 and 4 (an acute hemorrhagic DPV) could cause these symptoms, but the most correct option is option 2 (and I am sure it is the one the examiner wants answered).In this case, the presence of thickening of the subepithelial collagen layer, more evident with Masson's trichrome (special stain that allows differentiation of the collagen fibers), is pathognomonic of collagenous colitis.

Atrophy together with epithelial denudation are characteristic of this disease, which does not usually cause macroscopic alterations of the mucosa.

An increased density of intraepithelial lymphocytes and the absence of mention of architectural alterations of the crypts (characteristic of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease) support this diagnosis.Since a splenectomized patient is considered a "special" patient, he should receive antibiotic treatment as soon as possible, even if the wound does not appear infected.

It is necessary to make sure that the dog is yours (you should ask if the animal is correctly vaccinated) and if the patient is correctly vaccinated (5 doses of tetanus, it would not require tetanus); make a notification of Animal Aggression, for observation of this and take measures in case this is necessary.The correct answer is 3.

The study that gives us more information about endometrial pathology is hysteroscopy, which allows us to perform a directed endometrial biopsy.

Endometrial cytology is performed blindly and has a large number of false negatives.

MRI will help us to stage endometrial cancer.The picture described is typical of a viral meningoencephalitis, more specifically VHZ, with significant tropism by the temporal lobe, causing febrile fever and in many cases aphasia, so the correct option would be 2, since the cerebrospinal fluid normally shows a moderate lymphocytic pleocytosis, with normal glycorrhachia.

The rest are not correct because: The first one because it is not a bacterial meningitis that would present with more fever, the third one because limbic encephalitis usually presents afebrile with behavioral changes and the last one because the image they describe is not an abscess, well delimited.Reading the answers, the first thing that is clear to us is that acenocoumarol should NOT be given to a pregnant woman because of the risk of teratogenicity.

Anyone who does so during residency should be punished with 100 slaps on the back.

We discard answer 5.

Second: if treatment is given, it should be during the entire pregnancy, prothrombotic status is not only during the puerperium, so answer 2 discarded.

Advise a woman not to become pregnant when there are treatments that ensure a very low risk of thrombosis and/or fetal involvement?

Answer 1 discarded.

We are left with the possibility of not giving any treatment because it is low risk or administering low-dose aspirin.

It is true that factor V Leiden in heterozygosis is classified as low risk, who has not presented a previous thrombotic episode nor is there a combination with another thrombophilia; if we look at the CHEST guide, VIII edition and review what was said at the last congress of the Spanish Society of Gynecology and Obstetrics, we see that aspirin is used in case of phospholipid syndrome and that in the case of this woman, without previous thrombosis, without previous abortions (at least two are needed) and also being heterozygous, treatment is not necessary.

Correct answer, 3.We are being shown a picture of lumbar canal stenosis (Answer 4 correct).

The patient shows the characteristic clinical picture: lumbar pain that is relieved by flexing the trunk forward, radicular pain with lower limb involvement and neurogenic claudication.

Low back pain in a patient over 60 years of age accompanied by leg weakness when walking, which has to be interrupted at a certain distance, called neurogenic claudication, is the typical picture of stenosis.

The patient is relieved by flexing the spine forward because it widens the lumbar canal and worsens with extension...Pituitary apoplexy is a syndrome characterized by the sudden onset of headache accompanied by ocular motility disturbances and a variable degree of pituitary insufficiency.

The cause is usually a rapidly growing pituitary mass secondary to a vascular event (infarction or hemorrhage).

General symptoms may range from vomiting or nausea to meningeal irritation.

Compression on the chiasm and optic nerve can cause various campimetric deficits (usually greater bitemporal hemianopsia in the superior quadrants) and decreased visual acuity, even blindness.

If the mass grows lateral to the sella turcica it can compress the oculomotor nerves, with the common motor ocular nerve being the most frequently affected, because of its more medial course in the cavernous sinus.

The test of choice for the diagnosis of pituitary apoplexy is MRI, as CT may not distinguish the region clearly enough to distinguish degenerative or cystic changes from previous bleedings.

The finding of erosion of the anterior clinoid processes in the skull CT may support a chronic lesion, which as a result of an acute vascular phenomenon has caused the symptoms.

The management of these patients involves strict control of water and electrolyte disturbances and correction of hormonal deficits.

In unstable situations as in the case described, with significant visual disturbances, surgical intervention is usually of choice, with transsphenoidal decompression.The answer is 2.

According to the SEGO (Spanish Society of Gynecology and Obstetrics) in its 2005 protocol "Gestational trophoblastic disease", the risk of malignization, i.e. of developing a gestational trophoblastic neoplasm, ranges from 5 to 20% depending on whether it is a partial mole or a complete mole, respectively.

According to this protocol: "Patients will be monitored weekly with hcg dosage until it becomes undetectable, for three consecutive times.

After that the monitoring will be monthly, for six months and then every two months for another six months.

Based on the available data, a follow-up of three to six months is recommended for partial mole and 12 months for complete mole." Therefore, subsequent controls are strictly necessary.The risk of a new molar gestation, although increased compared to the normal population, is not 50%.It refers to a thyroid nodule, and the indicated test is a FNA (fine needle puncture).

I have read the answer Emilio has written on the challenge; the question is in the endocrine block and it seems he is trying to make it clear that it is a nodule.

Ultrasound facilitates FNA but is not mandatory, a 2 cm thyroid nodule can be punctured without echo.

It is important to have an analysis of thyroid function prior to the puncture; but since he is talking about an asymptomatic patient, it seems clear that she is not hyperthyroid.

I do not think it is contested and I think it is a question that most will have answered well.Currently the molecular classification of breast cancer is based on the study of hormone receptors, HER2 and the tumor cell proliferation index (Ki67).

We have four fundamental types: Luminal (A: HR+, HER2- and low Ki67 and B: HR+, HER2+/ - and high Ki67), HER2 + (HR -, HER2 + and high Ki67) and Basal Like or triple negative (HR -, HER2 - and high Ki67).The NNT (number needed to treat), means how many patients we would need to treat with an intervention to obtain a benefit; in this question how many patients do we need to treat with warfarin to prevent a stroke.

To calculate this we use the following formula: NNT= 1/RRA (RRA: absolute risk reduction).

RRA= Io - Ie (Io: incidence in those not exposed to warfarin; Ie: incidence in those exposed to warfarin).

RRA: 5,2%- 2,2%= 3= 0,03.

NNT: 1/0.03= 33.3.I answer this question thinking more about what they want to ask than what they are really asking.

There is heterogeneity in the development of Alzheimer's disease symptoms.

There are behavioral variants, but in the MIR they usually want you to think of other types of dementias in the face of behavioral symptoms.

In fact, the appearance of these symptoms in early stages should alert us and open the range of diagnostic possibilities.

Therefore, we discard 2 and 4.

Between 1 and 3, I choose 3 for the same reason and because of the emphasis on the decline of functional independence that occurs in these patients.The correct answer is: 2.

Hyperkalemia.

Spironolactone, as a potassium-sparing diuretic, inhibits the action of aldosterone at the renal level, being responsible for a decrease in potassium excretion.

Hyperkalemia produces repolarization disturbances that result in the installation of a large, symmetrical, narrow-based T, visible in the precordial leads.

The QT space is shortened.

These anomalies appear with a kalemia of around 5.5 to 6 mmol/l.

Above 6.5 mmol/L, electrocardiographic changes are constant, and are dominated by conduction disturbances (making ventricular extrasystoles possible).- pH less than 7.20 Pathological value.

Indication for fetal extraction by the quickest route, in this case a cesarean section.

- pH between 7.20-7.25 Prepathological value.

Repeat microtome in 15-20 min.

- pH greater than 7.25.

Value within the limits of normality. Observation.Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, but with very low platelets, so replenishment is necessary.

The proposed steroid dose is too low.The trick to this question is that there are 8 cervical roots for 7 vertebrae, therefore the C1 root exits ABOVE the atlas, and so on up to C8 which exits BETWEEN C7 and T1.

The thoracic roots come out respectively below the vertebra with their same numbering (nerve T1 under T1, T2 under T2, etc.).

Therefore, between C4 and C5 the 5th cervical nerve exits, and between T4 and T5 the 4th thoracic nerve exits.

The correct answer is 4.Everything we are told in this case is typical of COLLAGENOUS COLITIS.

In principle, the clinical and endoscopic findings may leave us a little as at the beginning, but histology is little more than the definition of this pathology.

The specific criterion for the diagnosis of collagenous colitis is the additional presence of an irregular band of collagen just below the surface epithelium of the colonic mucosa in continuity with the basement membrane, visible with trichrome staining (stains type I collagen fibers), which traps superficial capillaries producing lesions in the surface epithelium.

In addition, it is accompanied by a chronic inflammatory infiltrate in the lamina propria, composed mainly of lymphocytes, plasma cells and eosinophils.Calcium/creatinine urine ratio.

This is familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia or benign familial hypercalcemia.

Autosomal dominant disorder.

Asymptomatic.

Not cured after surgical treatment; it is due to mutation of the calcium-sensitive receptor.

Difficult question since it is necessary to know data of a disease that is not usually asked in the MIR.It is a coxarthrosis.

The surgical criteria depends on the patient's symptoms and failure of medical treatment.

No medication slows down or modifies the course of the disease.

An MRI is not necessary, it does not contribute anything.

Treatment is medical and sequential, starting with the first analgesic step of the WHO.As soon as we hear about weight we go to anorexia nervosa, but anorexia nervosa has three features: significant self-induced weight loss, body image distortion and amenorrhea.

So we remove 1.

One loses weight when one gets sad, worries, etc...

3 does not make sense in the MIR because of the clinic -in reality the history is different and in psychiatry everything is evolution-.

4 has to meet temporal criteria that are not met here.

So we are between 2 and 5.

Depression or anxiety?

There is no anxiety clinic and she also meets the criteria for depression.

The poor girl has been diagnosed with depression.

The answer is 5 (another option is that she was studying the MIR).We describe the case of a patient with a hyperkalemic emergency (potassium >6.5 mmol/l with ECG alterations).

The first step is the administration of iv calcium gluconate to counteract the cardiac toxicity of hyperkalemia (option 3 correct), giving us more time to initiate hypokalemic treatments (initially saline glucose with insulin, salbutamol, furosemide, and assessing dialysis if there is no good response).They comment on the case of a young woman with symptoms of systemic disease of probable autoimmune origin (lupus) who presents with macrocytic anemia, options 2 and 4 are options to identify the autoimmune disease but what they ask us is what to do to treat the anemia, so we should suspect that the anemia is secondary to the autoimmune disease and therefore request a direct Coombs test, since if it is positive the patient, except in extreme cases, will not be transfused and the primary cause should be treated.

It also speaks of rapid onset, which in the case of vitamin B12 is more progressive.In this question there should not be much doubt either (by the way, I think it is more of Pneumology than mine, but well, with this fever my friend Emilienko has deviated), since the clinical picture points to a parapneumonic pleural effusion, the macroscopic characteristics of the fluid seem so and the analysis of it shows us that the effusion is also complicated, almost on the verge of being an empyema (very high LDH, cellularity with predominance of PMN, glucose consumption).

In addition, with this pH (and knowing that the effusion is already loculated), the endothoracic tube is more than indicated.In this case, given the antibiotic treatment given and the severity of the diarrhea, it seems that we are dealing with a Clostridium infection.

Option 2 is not very credible, in fact, as much as patients with CAP may have associated diarrhea, it is unlikely that a bacterium is sensitive to an antibiotic at the beginning of the picture and stops being so after 3 days.With the deformity and pain in the distal radius, we expect a fracture at this level, so we mark 3.

However, I see it as unquestionable, given that it could also have a concomitant fracture in the ulnar green stalk, although the main lesion is that of the radius.Answer 2 incorrect: Graves' disease is characterized by hyperthyroidism and one or more of the following features: goiter, exophthalmos and pretibial myxedema.

Answer 4 incorrect: The most obvious symptom of subacute thyroiditis is neck pain.

Sometimes, the pain may extend to the jaw or ears.

Painful enlargement of the thyroid gland can last for weeks or months.

And you usually have low serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).

High serum free T4 level.

High serum thyroglobulin level.

Incorrect answer 4: Very rare tumor.They describe a typical hemisection or Brown-Sequard picture.

Ipsilateral posterior motor and chordal involvement with contralateral pain and temperature involvement.Dopler ultrasound is the most accurate test and allows subsequent non-invasive monitoring of the evolution of the disease.The seizures described and the EEG correspond to typical absence seizures and the initial treatment of choice is valproic acid.Serous cystoadenoma of the pancreas is a benign, often polycystic entity (also called microcystic adenoma) formed by collagen-producing (non-mucinous) cells.

It is usually asymptomatic and is discovered as an incidental finding.

Given its benign nature, surgery is not recommended, and is reserved only for symptomatic patients or those in whom the nature of the lesion is in doubt after a complete study with CT, MRI and echoendoscopy with biopsy.

It is frequently sporadic, but can be associated with Von-Hippel-Lindau syndrome.The clinical and biological picture of this patient raises suspicion of hemolytic anemia in the context of systemic lupus erythematosus.

If we have to choose only one diagnostic test, and this should be the first, we are interested in confirming the presence of an autoimmune hemolytic anemia with the direct Coombs' test in order to initiate treatment.

The other tests can wait...This is a woman with abrupt, painless and severe loss (she only sees the movement of the hands) of vision in one eye.

She does not give us much information from the ocular examination, only that there is an afferent pupillary defect.

We have to rely on systemic symptoms to diagnose the problem.

This is an elderly woman with typical symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica, and the pain in the temporomandibular region is very suggestive.

It is giant cell arteritis or temporal arteritis.

The most common ocular manifestation is anterior ischemic optic neuropathy.

In the fundus we would certainly see a papillary edema of that eye, with a gypsum white coloration.

The afferent pupillary defect is very characteristic of these severe ischemic optic neuropathies.

Suspecting giant cell arteritis, there are three analytical markers that are characteristically high: CRP, ESR and platelet count.

We will first request one of these parameters and treat it often without waiting for biopsy confirmation.

Therefore, option 2 is the correct one.This question is mixed hemato-nephro.

It is complicated, so we are going to rule out options one by one.

Option 2, nephrotic syndrome, apart from being broad and nonspecific, would not be assessable, since they do not give us the quantification of urine protein (they only tell us that urinalysis reveals the presence of kappa light chains, not the amount).

Option 3 would be unlikely; in amyloidosis, the light chains that are usually deposited are of the lambda type.

Option 4 also seems unlikely, since in IgA myeloma we would expect a monoclonal peak of this Ig, which in this case does not appear.

The doubt that arises is between 1 and 5; I would opt for 1, because this entity fulfills the characteristics described (absence of monoclonal peak in most cases, acute renal failure and presence of kappa chains in urine), being light chain myeloma a somewhat broader entity, but option 5 could also be considered valid.The acidosis with elevated PCO2, hypoxemia and normal bicarbonate suggests an acute respiratory acidosis of rapid onset probably due to drug intoxication.We are presented with a case of RSV-positive bronchiolitis.

According to current recommendations, it would be indicated to initiate supplemental oxygen therapy.Typical of ticlopidine.

Not only thrombocytopenia but also headache, schistocytes, high LDH and high bilirubin.